[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: We've got a new version
of JavaScript that was approved by
the general assembly six months ago and
many of the features of it
are already in browsers now.
And some of them will be coming in
later and so this is a good time to
look at what's in the new language,
did we get any good stuff in it?
And the answer is yes we've got
actually lot of good stuff in it.
So my number one most favorite new feature
of the language proper tail calls.
So compiler will turn that into
a jump instead of a call return,
so it'll go a little faster.
Take less memory in getting there,
it enables continuation passing style in
other modes of programming, it's great.
So that's my most favorite feature
with this JavaScript finally
becomes a real functional programming
language, which is great.
My second most favorite new feature,
the ellipsis operator which we've
talk about quite a bit yesterday again
is two versions of the curry function.
There is that one and that one,
they both do the same thing.
This one's inexcusable,
this one's actually pretty nice so
that it's going to be a good thing.
We've got modules in the language now
unfortunately the module system we got is
way too complex.
But it works, so there's a subset of
the module system which is adequate.
Which if you just wanna say here's some
stuff, I'm gonna export this thing.
That's how you use it and that's all
it needs to be, and it can do that.
So that's good,
that's much better than requires, or
any of the other module loaders.
We've got let in const, which by
themselves are not that big a deal.
Except they are less confusing
to Java programmers.
So it's good not to confuse the Java
programmers, so I like that.
One thing I find confusing about
this is that I've seen a lot
of developers who are confused about
the difference between const and freezing.
And so they're surprised that you can
put a mutable object in a const and
still mutate that object.
So constants for
variables, freezing is for
values, just remember that,
it's pretty easy.
We have Destructuring,
destructuring is something you can do and
let and can't statements, and
also in assignment statements.
Where we can create new variables and
initialize them from some
object at the same time.
So again not a big change, doesn't let
us do anything we couldn't do before but
it is a convenience, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I think you said freezing is
for values, did you mean freezing is for
objects?
>> Speaker 1: Objects are values.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: In theory
you could freeze numbers,
except they're already frozen,
and strings are already frozen.
So you don't need to freeze those.
>> Speaker 2: One follow up,
what apart about nested objects?
>> Speaker 1: It only
freezes the outer one,
there is no deep freeze in the language.
>> Speaker 2: So
you have to do a recursive freeze.
>> Speaker 1: If you care about that,
you have to descend into the language and
freeze each level.
>> Speaker 1: Then we have WeakMap,
WeakMap is a really nice thing.
WeakMap works the way objects should work.
With a WeakMap you can take any JavaScript
value and use it as a key and then
associate any other value with it which
is the way object should have worked.
And it also has a nice property
that it does not route the keys for
the purpose of garbage collecting.
So if the only place where an object still
exists is as the key of a property in
a WeakMap, it will get garbage collected
automatically, which is brilliant.
So that means there is a class of
applications which we can write in
JavaScript now using WeakMap that we
could not write in the language before,
which is really nice.
The biggest problem with WeakMap is it has
maybe the worst name ever put on a feature
of a programming language.
Because who wants to use
something called a WeakMap, right?
But it's actually a really good thing.
It's just a really bad name and
we have Megastring literals.
We have the back tick which we can now use
to make literals that can spam many lines,
so here's are an example
of a regular expression.
>> Speaker 1: This particular regular
expression matches all of the number
literals that are an ES6.
And you can see why I don't like
regular expressions because
you can't make any sense
out of this right.
Just looking at that, it's just noise it's
really hard to understand what it's about.
So I can make things all easier now,
I've got a function here which we'll
call the regular expression
constructor passing it in a string
but first it will remove all of
the spaces from that string.
And so now,
I can use one of these mega literals
to write it out with all
the whitespace in it.
And with whitespace in it,
regular expressions aren't quite that bad,
we get spaces between.
Each of the elements and
I can line them up and
you can kind of see what's going on,
so we now have binary literals.
You can have zero B followed by zeros and
ones and
we've got aka literal which I'm
still not sure about those.
You've got an 0 for a zero and
then octal digits and
we've always had the hacks and
the floating point.
So that's pretty neat, this is a much
nicer way of reading regular expressions.
There are still things about
the mega literals and I don't like.
That back tick is the smallest
operator we've got and
it's used to bracket the biggest
structures we've ever had.
So there is potential for
misreading here so
we're gonna have to be cautious with this
but I think this is probably a good thing.
And again regulex,
if you're writing regular expressions
even with the whitespace you
still wanna be suing regulex.
So we've got fat arrow functions or
fart for short.
So the motivation here,
there are people who are complaining that
with function you have
to type eight letters.
You have to F you N, and I said that's
too much to type and I said well there
are these new things now called keyboard
back rows, it's too much to read.
Okay, so we added them.
So it's a short form for writing
a function that will return a value.
So we got the parameter list,
we got name and then we got the fart and
then we've got the return value after it.
So, you don't have to write function and
you don't have to write
return except this will fail.
This looks like it's a little mini
constructor that's gonna return a new
object, right?
It's gonna return a new thing where the id
is whatever the name is that we passed,
this is going to fail.
Instead it's going to give you a function
that returns undefined, which is not good.
And it's because of a syntactic
ambiguity in the language,
the committee was aware
of this when they did it,
we just keep adding new bad
parts we can't stop doing it.
So because of that I'm
not a big fan of these.
>> Speaker 3: So
it will compile but it won't run.
>> Speaker 1: It will compile,
it will run,
it will return undefined when you call it.
You will not get the new object
that you're trying to construct.
We keep doing this to ourselves,
keep doing this to you,
how that actually works.
>> Speaker 2: Because
the brackets are ambiguous?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
because the brackets are ambiguous.
There are number of ways they
could have disambiguated it,
but they decide instead to make them.
>> Speaker 3: A couple quick [LAUGH]
because that's not what you put inside
the brackets isn't really
the contents of a function.
Typically, a function would return.
I'm confused about, I'm confusing this.
I just fart with what we're
using in another language.
In TypeScript, I think,
they put var in TypeScript.
I've been using it, I'm using it
to call a function to do something
>> Speaker 1: So this will work for
lots of other purposes,
the place where it fails,
as if you're trying to
return a new object literal.
>> Speaker 3: You would have on
the other side of this X var X equals.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, or you pass this more
likely pass this as an argument to another
function That's one of the most
common uses for these.
>> Speaker 1: So anyway moving on, and
there are lots of other bad parts in
the language too like generators
with the yield operator,
I think that was probably a mistake.
It adds a lot of complexity and not
much value and kind of locks people into
patterns which I think are things that
we should be evolving away from and
not getting trapped in.
A lot of the other new features we
haven't had enough experience with
them yet to know.
If they're going to be good parts or
bad parts but there is one part
that I'm confident is going to be a very,
very bad part and that is class.
This was the most requested new feature
for ES6, it was mostly requested by
Java programmers who were having to move
into JavaScript and were unhappy about it.
And saying please can you
turn JavaScript into Java so
we don't have to learn this crappy
language and so we did that.
Except we didn't actually
add class what we did
was we added syntactic sugar on top of the
prototype of stuff that's already there.
So when you get down into the edges,
it's not going to work
the way you expect it will.
But worse than that is it keeps you
trapped in the mindset of the classical
model, which means you will never
learn to use the functional model.
And also you don't have
the strong type system
that you need in order
to deal with classes.
And so I'm pretty confident
that the people who are gonna be using
classes are gonna feel vindicated.
It's in the standard,
I have a right to use it.
It's all that good stuff.
But they will never learn to
use the language effectively.
They will go to their graves never
knowing how miserable they were.